[Music]
good morning welcome to breakfast with
louise minchin and dan walker our
headlines for you at eight o'clock
a row over covered vaccine supplies as
the eu threatens controls on exports
from
europe but the vaccine minister tells
breakfast there's no cause for concern
i'm very confident with the team we talk
to them all the time they're confident
they will deliver for us yes
going nowhere decision expected today on
hotel quarantine for british citizens
returning home
unemployment hits 5 good morning 1.72
million people are out of work in the
three months to the end
of november experts say many more will
follow
thomas tuchel is set to be named as
chelsea's new boss
the former psg and dortmund coach is
being lined up to replace frank lampard
at stamford bridge what's your
underpants of choice
just like boxer briefs boxer yeah see
which ones you'd go for right
and comedian rod gilbert tells us about
his mission to get men to open up about
infertility good morning is a cold start
to the day once again with the risk of
ice
on untreated surfaces rain coming in
from the west will engage with cold air
further north
and deposit some snow but then milder
conditions follow on behind
out of all the details later in the
programme
[Music]
good morning to tuesday the 26th of
january i'm in the last half an hour the
vaccine minister nadeem zahawi has said
he's confident the uk will get its full
supply of coronavirus vaccine
after the eu warned it would tighten
exports of doses
let's get a bit more on this now from
our chief political correspondent adam
fleming
adam morning to you i suppose it's quite
interesting isn't it the whole
background to this as well and what is
going on in various countries
across europe yeah so the reason this is
happening is that the vaccine rollout in
the eu
is going much more slowly than they
would like they also think that
astrazeneca
is going to give them far fewer doses
over the next few weeks and months than
they were
expecting so there's been a series of
quite bad tempered phone calls between
the european commission who've been
buying all the vaccines
and the drug company and one of the
spin-offs of that
is the the eu is thinking about getting
european vaccine
manufacturers to have to report when
they're going to send
vaccines out of the eu and they're going
to export them
abroad now that wouldn't affect the uk
supply of the astrazeneca vaccine
because that's made in oxfordshire and
staffordshire and north wales
where it could affect the uk though is
supplies of the pfizer vaccine
because they're made at a factory in
belgium but
the vaccines minister nadim zahawi said
we should all relax
because this probably isn't going to be
a problem
i'm very confident with the team we talk
to them all the time they're confident
they will deliver for us yes
and uh astrazeneca the bulk of
astrogenetic oxford
manufactured in the uk because we made
that early investment
in manufacturing uh capacity in the uk
which is also a good news i'm confident
we'll meet our mid-february target and
then we'll keep vaccinating
beyond that as we vaccinate the whole of
the adult population or those who will
accept a vaccine by the autism also if
you read what the eu is saying carefully
which you know i like to do
they're talking about firms reporting
what they're doing with their exports
that's not the same as saying they have
to get permission before those exports
happen
so this might end up being a bit more of
a sort of speed bump rather than a
roadblock
very interesting to hear adam thank you
for that we know you love your european
detail details
what you need thank you our new travel
restrictions are expected to be
announced which will require some
travelers coming to england to
quarantine
in hotels when they arrive the prime
minister is due to discuss the plans
with ministers later the new measures
are likely to apply to uk residents
arriving from high-risk countries like
south africa
this comes amid concerns about new
coronavirus variants
the unemployment rate in the uk has
risen to five percent for the first time
in nearly half a decade and nina has
lots more details on this for us morning
yes
uh good morning these are the figures
for the three months to the end of
november now we learned today that in
that period unemployment as louis said
hit five percent now that
translates to 1.72 million
people out of work uh what about
benefits claimants well that went up to
2.6 million keep in mind that before the
pandemic that was at 1.2 million
and and this was quite an interesting
period if you think back a mixed picture
the tier systems
then went into a national lockdown in
november but there's also the
development of the vaccine the extension
of the furlough and hope of a normal-ish
christmas
gave some space for optimism but then
came a rise in the r number
and the national lockdown and experts
are saying that things
will get worse before they get better of
course because of the furlough scheme
masking the reality of jobs that will go
and interesting donna louise looking at
these numbers so redundancies for that
period was 14
for every thousand jobs that doesn't
mean anything in itself but compare it
to the peak of the global financial
crisis
that peaked at 12 in every thousand so
it's already higher
than it was then and the age of people
who are being made redundant has gone up
up until now it was largely under 25s
it's gone up to those who are under 35
so traditionally more stable jobs are
going
nina thank you
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app
and get the full story with dot
bbc.co.uk forward slash news
follow the story for all the latest with
bbc news